Okay.
So welcome to the next section of the course.
In this section we're going to incorporate TypeScript into our View project and see how it interacts
with various features such as components, such as functions, such as the UK's features, etc..
So we're going to use the view SQLite to set up TypeScript.
So wherever you are running your view server, make sure to shut that down and you can use the command
control key to bring down your server, make sure you are still in your central project directory.
The top level and one other thing that I want you to do, what we're about to do is going to create
some additional files in the project.
Most of them are going to be beneficial, but unfortunately what this will also do is replace a critical
file in our app and it is the home view.
Component.
So if you go to home view that view, here's the component.
So what we're about to do is going to replace the contents of this file.
What I'm going to do later on isn't going to use get in order to revert the changes that the view Celia
makes this file.
So we return back to what we have right here as an alternative to using GET which I will show you later
this lesson you can simply copy and paste the contents of this file.
So later on you'll be able to overwrite what The View Seelye over wrote.
I know it's kind of confused the confusing and we'll talk more about it later.
The short takeaway here is this file is going to be replaced with the contents and we want to preserve
what we have in here right now.
So make sure you have this file or at least its contents somewhere secure because the contents are about
to be overwritten.
All right.
So with that, let's execute the code.
We're going to need to execute in our terminal to add TypeScript.
So right here, you may recall, we have our view.
Seelye Which is view.
Then we use the add command to add a new feature to our project.
Earlier on, we use this to add view, ax, view, root or tailwind, etc. In order to add TypeScript
super simple, we just save you, add TypeScript to execute that command and the Seelye is going to
use NPM to fetch the correct packages from the NPM repository.
And then it's going to give us a couple of questions.
All right.
So here's the very first question.
Do we want to use a class style component syntax?
This is a special syntax that we can use entitled correct in TypeScript in combination with components.
We want to say no here.
For the next question, it's going to ask us if we want to use Babel alongside TypeScript, basically
combining those two technologies.
TypeScript is going to compiler code from TypeScript to JavaScript, and then BABBEL also has to deal
with, for example, converting our view files to constructs in JavaScript that the browser can understand.
Basically, it's asking us whether we want to combine those two.
The answer here is going to be yes.
So put in a Y for yes and then press enter again.
The next one is pretty simple.
Do we want to automatically convert all JavaScript files to TypeScript files?
TypeScript files, by the way, have a dot TSC extension.
We're going to eventually move all of our JavaScript files to TypeScript and have these extensions.
But I do not want this to happen right now.
I want to do it manually.
So for now we want to tell the CI and for.
No, no, do not convert all the files.
All right.
The next question, do we want to allow JavaScript files to be compiled?
The answer is yes.
We can allow TypeScript to process and compile regular JavaScript files that don't have any TypeScript
syntax in them.
So here we're going to press Y for.
Yes.
And the final question, script type, checking for all declaration files for this one.
You can also press a Y for yes and press enter.
So with that, we're going to get the C allowed to run a generator, which is basically just a set script.
So it's going to fetch a whole bunch of stuff for us.
And as I scroll down, you're going to see we're going to get two errors here.
One is from a new component that it created for us called Helloworld World View, which we do not care
about.
And the second one is the more important one, which is s lint rc that yes.
Having a duplicate key.
We're going to solve that in just a moment.
But I do want to show you right here that using GZIP, I'm going to do get status to see all the files
that were changed or added.
And here's the complete list and we're going to go through these files one by one, talk about what
they've done and what they've contributed to the project, and also modify the ones that that we need
to.
All right.
So let's start with the one that I talked about in the beginning of this lesson.
You can see we have Source View's home view.
That view has been modified right here.
And if I open up home view that view again.
You can see that unfortunately what the CLIA did is it overrode all of our former contents with the
new contents.
We do not want that.
So an easy way to get it back to its original version is to provide the command, get restore right
here, get restore on earlier versions of get.
If this doesn't work, by the way, you can use get check out instead.
But if you're running a modern version of get something in the last year or so, this should work.
So get restore and then you provide the name of the file.
In this case, it's source views, home view view and then execute that you're going to see it's going
to return it back to its original implementation.
And this is the code we saw in the beginning of the lesson.
So once again, if you don't want to use get simply copy the code that you put aside and put it back
into this file and return back to what you had.
Or alternatively, if you just lost all your code, just pause the video at this moment and go ahead
and copy and paste what we have right here.
All right.
So with that, let's run get status again.
So here's what we have currently.
The next thing I want to do is delete the newly created Hello world component.
It's completely useless.
It's unfortunately one of those extra components that it created for us.
So what I'm going to do is head to the source components directory and just delete helloworld.
It's not being used anymore.
It's just an extra component that DCI created for us completely and utterly useless.
And once again, we can use get status to track where we are.
And there we go.
Okay, so let's walk through all the files that the vehicle either created or modified for us from top
to bottom.
So let's start with S led RC dogs, which we see right here.
So I'm going to open that up in my voice code editor.
And just as a heads up, apologies if some of this text is unreadable.
I'm going to try to highlight it so you can easily see which files we're targeting here.
So that is lint RC database.
As a reminder, this is the file that configures our s lint or which looks for violations throughout
our code in the project.
And we actually saw an issue earlier in our terminal and we can see it right here as well that we have
to extends key is right here.
We have an extends key right here for me on line number eight.
And here we also have an extends key with basically a duplicate key.
This is an array of all the additional extensions or in other words, plug ins that we are adding.
And now we have the new one that DCI was attempting to add that also provides support for TypeScript.
So the easy way to fix this, of course, is we simply remove our first extends.
This was our old one, and now we're just going to get the benefits of the new one.
So notice the first three elements in both arrays are the same.
We get our view three support.
We get our basic Eastland support, we get prettier support, and then we also get TypeScript support
now.
So with that we can go ahead and remove our first occurrence of extends right here and that should fix
the issue down below.
When I save this prettier should also modify all the keys so they have everything correctly.
And that takes care of excellent architecture.
Yes.
All right.
The next one in line on the left is going to be just config that.
Yes, if I open that one up and this one, there's nothing different or nothing that we have to worry
about.
The only thing worth noting here is this preset property has changed to be TypeScript in Babel.
Basically, all I have to realize here is that the client configured our just test suite to be able
to recognize TypeScript files and run them accordingly.
So it had to modify this key right here so it understands what's going on.
But we don't have to edit anything in this file.
I'm just explaining everything that it did for us.
And there's nothing more we have to do in this file, right?
We have two more files modified here.
Package, lock, JSON and package that JSON.
Of course, package JSON is the one that keeps track of all of our projects dependencies.
And if I look for TypeScript in this file, we're going to see that it is now in our project type TypeScript
and there we see a whole bunch of things related to TypeScript.
Here is the actual language version right here.
So nothing we have to modify here as well.
This is just letting you know that it's now a project dependency package lock.
That JSON is a more specific file that we never modify that deals with more specific project dependencies,
this library with this library at this library, etc., we never modify it.
It's just automatically generated for us so we don't have to worry about it.
All right, so what else is left?
Oh, yeah.
So we have source that source in the source directory.
A file called Main that.
Yes.
And you could see it's been deleted, but it hasn't actually really been deleted.
What it has actually done is renamed it to have a typescript file extension.
So in TypeScript files have a DOT extension and here you can see a new file called Source Main that.
Yes.
So if I open up a main that's.
This is still our old man, that J.S. File, but that UCLA automatically renamed it to be a TypeScript
file.
So here you can see the dots extension.
Here you can see for me in this code, we had that little blue box with tips in the bottom right corner.
That means TypeScript.
Similarly, if I open up my file Explorer and I look at this far right here, it's going to have that
same TS extension and this logo.
Basically, there's nothing that's changed within this file.
The only difference is that it now has a different extension.
There's no TypeScript specific code in this file, so we'll be just fine keeping it as it is, we don't
need to touch it.
But just as a heads up, that's what DCI did for us.
All right.
So two more files worth talking about.
These are two new files that it created for us.
Luckily, the good news is that when we once again don't have to worry about editing anything in them.
But I do want to quickly talk about what we did here.
So next file is called Shims View.
This is basically a typescript specific file that enables TypeScript to recognise different aspects
and components in view.
Again, don't worry about it, just realize it's something that's required to integrate view with TypeScript.
Right.
Because TypeScript is a separate language, it doesn't have to be used with view.
It can be used in general to build JavaScript programs.
It can be used with other frontend frameworks like React for Angular.
So this is kind of the a little bit of the glue layer that specifically emerges.
Our view project with TypeScript so that it works without complaints.
And finally, every TypeScript project in general, not just in view but in any TypeScript project,
we're going to have a file called CONFIG that JSON.
So here I have it highlighted and if I open it up.
Here is to confirm that, Jason.
And basically, this is a set of options for TypeScript.
All right.
So this is specific configurations for how TypeScript works.
We generally do not have to worry about this file or modify anything in it.
Just realize it's a requirement for any TypeScript project.
And so now what's happening is usually says, I know you have a TypeScript project and thus I'm going
to need to generate this for you because it's a requirement of everything.
It's a requirement of any project whatsoever that you just have it.
All right.
So this is just configurations for how Typekit works.
Don't worry about it.
Vue knows that you have a view project, so it knows how to configure this file with a bunch of reasonable
defaults for Vue developers.
All right.
So for example, we can see here it's setting up our source directory to be able to recognize any files
with a dot vue extension.
Anything with a dot TSA extension in our test directory, etc., basically saying, hey, just be sure
to recognize all of these Vue files, these JavaScript files, these touch ID files in various folders
in our project, you know, stick with these options, etc..
All right.
So that's all the new files that we have created.
So you should go ahead and start running the start up script which is NPM, run, serve and hopefully
now we should have no problem building everything up.
Starting the development server.
We have addressed all of the warnings that we saw when we ran our original View Ad TypeScript Command.
This might take a little bit to compile, but if you see the regular grain successful error message
that everything is working just fine.
So that's what you should see.
Compiled successfully, no issues found and you should still see the app running just fine in your browser
at localhost 88.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.